Badrunnahar Binty's dissertation is entitled “Phytochemical Investigation and Antioxidant Properties of Petrolium Ether Fruit Extract of Ampelocissus barbata (Vitaceae)” It has been authorized by the Examination Committee for the pa rtial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Bachelor of Pharmacy (B. Pharm.) Fraction of extract of Pet ether from Ampelocissus barbata fruits extract was used for the observation of Phytochemical evaluation, Antioxidant Activity Test. The results suggest that the extract contains a diverse range of phytochemical s with potential antioxidant properties. Traditional medicines are purely based on a natural way of treatment for all illness. Modern medicines are derived from plants and animals, besides that they are not usually processed. The invention of medicine is undoubtedly considered the most precious and beneficial in human civilization. The history of medicine shows a remarkable journey of how we humans have approached different illnesses and diseases from the early periods till date. There are many new biological treatments being developed by using medicine and opened a new career for both women and men as nurses/compounders and physicians. These advances along with the growth in chemistry, genetics and lab technology led to modern medicine. The oldest Japanese medical work dates back to 983 CE, which Tamba Yasuyori wrote. Modern medicine started to emerge after the In dustrial Revolution in the 18th century. Medicinal plants are widely used in non-industrialized societies, mainly because they are readily available and cheaper than modern medicines. Plants synthesize hundreds of chemical compounds for functions including defense against insects, fungi, diseases, and herbivorous mammals. The earliest historical records of herbs are found from the Sumerian civilization, where hundreds of medicinal plants including opium are listed on clay tab lets. The Greek physician dioscorides, who worked in the Roman army, documented over 1000 recipes for medicines using over 600 medicinal plants in De materia medica, c. 6 0 AD; this formed the basis of pharmacopoeias for some 1500 years. Since prehistoric times, the fields of botany and medicine have enjoyed an enduring and fruitful relationship. We can only conjecture as to when and where the search for herbal remedies began. Codeine, derived from the opium poppy and used as a narcotic analgesic in Nyquil, appears in medical traditions that predate modern pharmacology by thousands of years. Salicylate (aspirin) was originally extracted from willow bark, and ephedrine, the flu remedy in Vicks was derived from Ephedra. Since the establishment of NCI (National Cancer Institute) in 1937, modern methods of medical research have isolated a number of plant products that have been successful in treating different types of human cancers. Examples include the anti-leukemic agent vincristine, derived from a tropical periwinkle (Catharanthus roseus), and the ovarian cancer therapeutic, Taxol. Since 1986 over 50,000 plant extractions have been screened at NCI, of which fewer than ten have been identified as potentially useful drugs. 80% of the people in Pakistan depend on plants to cure themselves, a 40% in China. In Japan there is more demand of medicinal plants than of "official" medicines. In Bangladesh, 5,000species of angiosperm are reported to occur. More than 500 of such medicinal plants have so far been enlisted as growing in Bangladesh. It has been admitted that the ingestion of vegetables with antioxidant properties can prevent many pathologies. The plant kingdom represents an enormous reservoir of biologically active compounds with various chemical structures and protective/disease preventive properties. Nearly 50% of drugs used in medicine are of plant origin. Antioxidants are molecules that inhibit oxidation, a chemical reaction that can produce free radicals, leading to chain reactions that may damage cells. Consuming antioxidant -rich foods is associated with numerous health benefits, including reduced risk of chronic diseases. Tannin is an astringent, bitter plant polyphenolic compound that binds to and precipitates proteins and various other organic compounds including amino acids and alkaloids. Antioxidants are compounds that protect cells against the damaging effects of reactive oxygen species, such as singlet oxygen, superoxide, peroxyl radicals, hydroxyl radicals and peroxynitrite. Flavonoids have aroused considerable interest recently because of their potential beneficial effect s on human health. DPPH free radical scavenging is an accepted mechanism for screening the antioxidant activity of plant extracts. The odd electron of nitrogen atom in DPPH is reduced by receiving a hydrogen atom from antioxidants to the corresponding hydrazine (Contreras - Guzman and Srong 1982) The ability to scavenge the D PPH radical was expressed as percentage inhibition and calculated using the following equation. There is increasing evidence to suggest that NO and its derivatives produced by the activated phagocytes may have a genotoxic effect. The formation of carcinogenic N -nitrose com pounds, deamination, and oxidation of the DNA bases and inhibition of the critical DNA repair protein leads to mutagenesis and an initiation towards the process of carcinogenesis. The continuous exposure to free radicals generated from the chronic inflammation has been found to cause more cancers than environmental chemicals. The hydroxyl radical scavenging activity can be measured by studying the competition between deoxyribose and the plant extracts. This can be determined spectrophotometrically at 530nm. Mechanisms for scavenging peroxyl radicals for the protection of cellular structures includes endogenous antioxidants such as melatonin and glutathione and dietary antioxi dants such as mannitol and vitamin E.